DOC1820: [Partner ops] Add guide for account admin and legal representative changes (#675)
swan-io/docs: docs/topics/operations/guide-change-account-admin-legal-representative.mdx

---
title: Change an account administrator or legal representative
---

# Change an account administrator or legal representative

This guide helps partner support teams handle requests to change an account administrator (admin) or legal representative: what to collect, what to tell your user, how to track progress, and when to escalate.

> For user-facing instructions in Swan's web banking, share [Change your account's legal representative](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/change-legal-representative).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For user-facing instructions in Swan's web banking, share [Change your account's legal representative](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/17763494332317-Change-your-account-s-legal-representative).
```

> For the technical API reference, including mutations, status values, and rejection types, see [Change account administrator](https://docs.swan.io/topics/accounts/memberships/admin-change).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the technical API reference, including mutations, status values, and rejection types, see [Change account administrator](/topics/accounts/memberships/admin-change).
```

:::info Key takeaways

- Changing an account admin or legal representative can't be done through the Dashboard alone. **It requires a Swan Support request.**
- The secure form link is valid for **7 calendar days**, and progress isn't saved.
- The change applies to **all accounts** belonging to the account holder, not just one.
- You can only have **one active request** at a time per account holder. Starting a new request while one is active will delay both.
- Complete documents are the best way to avoid delays. Missing documents move the request back into information collection.
- Once the change is complete, Swan doesn't automatically remove or downgrade the previous admin.

:::

:::tip Integration

> Consider integrating account membership management into your product so your users can manage membership changes themselves. See the [account membership documentation](https://docs.swan.io/topics/accounts/memberships) for API details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider integrating account membership management into your product so your users can manage membership changes themselves. See the [account membership documentation](/topics/accounts/memberships) for API details.
```

:::

:::info Phone number changes

If the user also needs a phone number change, complete that separately before or after the admin change, not at the same time.

:::

---

## Admin vs. legal representative changes

| Change type | What it means | Applies to |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Change account admin** | Transfer administrative control of the account to a different person. | Company accounts |

> | **Change legal representative** | Update who is recognized as the company's legal representative. | Company accounts only: companies, associations, homeowner associations, and other legal entities |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Change account admin** | Transfer administrative control of the account to a different person. | Company accounts: companies, associations, homeowner associations, and other legal entities |
| **Change legal representative** | Update who is recognized as the company's legal representative. | Company accounts: companies, associations, homeowner associations, and other legal entities |
```

> This process doesn't apply to individual or self-employed account holders. For full details on account memberships and permissions, see [Account memberships](https://docs.swan.io/topics/accounts/memberships).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process doesn't apply to individual or self-employed account holders. For full details on account memberships and permissions, see [Account memberships](/topics/accounts/memberships).
```

---

## Prepare to submit the request

Before starting the change request, gather as much context as possible from your user so Swan can process it without repeated follow-ups.

- Identify the company and who the new admin or legal representative should be.
- Check whether your user already provided supporting documents.
- Include all known context and attachments in the first support request.
- Don't ask your user for information you already have in your own tools, such as account references or previously attached documents.
- Ask for missing information in one complete request, not across multiple follow-ups.

:::info Account verification

Swan still verifies any new account holders. This guide covers what you need to do on your side beforehand.

:::

:::info Verification renewal

An ongoing verification renewal (reKYC) doesn't block an admin change request. The two processes can run at the same time.

:::

---

## Prepare documents

> Missing documents cause most delays. Required documents vary based on the company type, situation, and who is filling out the form. Not all items apply to every case. Please share this with users before they open the form, so they can prepare. Swan will confirm the necessary documents after reviewing the request. For the full list, refer to [required supporting documents](https://docs.swan.io/partnership/document-center/company-registration/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Missing documents cause most delays. Required documents vary based on the company type, situation, and who is filling out the form. Not all items apply to every case. Share this with users before they open the form so they can prepare. Swan will confirm the necessary documents after reviewing the request. For the full list, refer to [required supporting documents](/partnership/document-center/company-registration/).
```

:::caution No progress saving

Tell your user to gather documents **before** opening the link. If the form isn't completed in one session, your user will have to start over.

:::

---

## Update access after the change

Swan doesn't automatically remove or downgrade the previous admin. Their membership and permissions stay the same.

Once Swan confirms the change is complete, ask the new admin whether the previous admin should keep their access.

- If the previous admin should no longer have access to the account, the new admin should disable the previous admin's account membership.
- If the previous admin should keep their access but no longer have full admin rights, the new admin must downgrade their permissions.

> If your product doesn't let support teams manage account memberships directly, ask your development team to add this capability using Swan's [Account Membership API](https://docs.swan.io/topics/accounts/memberships). Otherwise, gather this information and submit a Swan Support request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your product doesn't let support teams manage account memberships directly, ask your development team to add this capability using Swan's [Account Membership API](/topics/accounts/memberships). Otherwise, gather this information and submit a Swan Support request.
```

1. Ask your user to gather documentation proving the change, such as a resignation letter, updated company registry, or general assembly minutes appointing a new representative.
2. Have the new legal representative or an authorized person submit a Swan Support request, including the supporting documentation along with the standard required documents.
3. If the outgoing representative is unreachable and their identity document isn't available, note this in the support request. Swan will advise on alternative documentation.

### Resolve a blocked membership

If the new admin or legal representative's membership is blocked, Swan can't complete the change until the blocker is resolved. Raise a Swan Support request. See [Contact Swan Support](#contact-swan-support). Don't try to work around it.

### Resend the new administrator's invitation

After Swan validates the documents, the new administrator receives an invitation email to join all accounts belonging to the account holder. If the invitation isn't received:

1. Ask the new administrator to check their spam and junk folders.
2. Check the support ticket; Swan may have shared information there.

> 3. If still not received, raise a support request in your Dashboard via the existing ticket. Don't open a new ticket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If still not received, reply in the existing support ticket. Don't open a new ticket.
```

> If your product is integrated with the Swan API, your development team can also use the `sendAccountMembershipInviteNotification` mutation to resend the invitation. The membership status must be `InvitationSent`. **Up to 5 invitations can be sent per day per membership.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your product is integrated with the Swan API, your development team can also resend the invitation with the `sendAccountMembershipInviteNotification` mutation, up to five times per day per membership. See [Resend membership invitation notification](/topics/accounts/memberships/guide-resend-invitation).
```

### Cancel a change request

You cannot cancel requests through the Dashboard; you can only check their status there.

> - If the status is `Ongoing` (form not yet submitted): the link expires automatically after 7 calendar days. No action is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can't cancel requests through the Dashboard; you can only check their status there.

- If the status is `Ongoing` (form not yet submitted): the link expires automatically after 7 calendar days. No action is needed.
```

In your request, include:

- Account holder or company name
- Current legal representative
- New legal representative
- Reason for the change
- Whether the change applies to all related accounts or only a specific subset
- Any supporting documents already available

If the affected accounts can't be clearly identified from this information, include a CSV or account list. Swan needs to confirm exactly which accounts are included before creating the bulk change requests.

---

## Contact Swan Support

Raise a request using the [Partner support request form](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new).

Contact Swan Support if:

- Your user submitted the form and hasn't received a response.
- Your user received a document request they don't understand.
- Your user can't submit the form.
- The form link expired.
- The change was approved but the account doesn't reflect the update.
- The previous legal representative is no longer part of the entity and you need guidance on alternative documentation.
- The new admin or legal representative's membership is blocked.

> ### Always include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Always include
```

- Account holder or company name
- IBAN
- Names of the current and new admin or legal representative
- Date the form was submitted
- Screenshots, if the issue is form-related
- Any reference numbers from previous communications

---

## Share these articles with your users

When your users have questions about updating account details, share these support articles directly:

- [Change your account's legal representative](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/change-legal-representative): guide on the legal representative change process for account holders

> - [Power of Attorney (POA)](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/power-of-attorney): explains what a PoA is, how to complete it, and Swan's templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Change your account's legal representative](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/17763494332317-Change-your-account-s-legal-representative): guide on the legal representative change process for account holders
- [Power of Attorney (POA)](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/17795888786717-Power-of-Attorney-POA): explains what a PoA is, how to complete it, and Swan's templates
```

:::tip Help center content

You can also use these articles as a starting point to create your own help center content, tailored to your product's terminology and your users' specific context.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::

```
Trailing newline per POSIX/prettier. (nitpick)

- Complete documents are the best way to avoid delays. Missing documents move the request back into information collection.
- Once the change is complete, Swan doesn't automatically remove or downgrade the previous admin.

:::

:::tip Integration

Consider integrating account membership management into your product so your users can manage membership changes themselves. See the [account membership documentation](/topics/accounts/memberships) for API details.

:::

:::info Phone number changes

If the user also needs a phone number change, complete that separately before or after the admin change, not at the same time.

:::

---

## Admin vs. legal representative changes

| Change type | What it means | Applies to |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Change account admin** | Transfer administrative control of the account to a different person. | Company accounts: companies, associations, homeowner associations, and other legal entities |
| **Change legal representative** | Update who is recognized as the company's legal representative. | Company accounts: companies, associations, homeowner associations, and other legal entities |

> This process doesn't apply to individual or self-employed account holders. For full details on account memberships and permissions, see [Account memberships](/topics/accounts/memberships).

Reviewer: Both rows have identical "Applies to" values, and per `admin-change.mdx`, the API (a single `AccountAdminChange` object), and the support article title, these are one Swan process: the admin change sets the new administrator as the legal representative. 

As written, support agents may read the table as two separate request types. Intentional framing, or worth merging into a sentence like "Both terms describe the same request: Swan sets the new administrator as the legal representative on all the account holder's accounts."?

Author: Updated

---

## Prepare to submit the request

Before starting the change request, gather as much context as possible from your user so Swan can process it without repeated follow-ups.

- Identify the company and who the new admin or legal representative should be.
- Check whether your user already provided supporting documents.
- Include all known context and attachments in the first support request.
- Don't ask your user for information you already have in your own tools, such as account references or previously attached documents.
- Ask for missing information in one complete request, not across multiple follow-ups.

:::info Account verification

Swan still verifies the identity of any new administrator. This guide covers what you need to do on your side beforehand.

:::

:::info Verification renewal

An ongoing verification renewal (Re-KYC) doesn't block an admin change request. The two processes can run at the same time.

:::

---

## Prepare documents

> Missing documents cause most delays. Required documents vary based on the company type, situation, and who is filling out the form. Not all items apply to every case. Share this with users before they open the form so they can prepare. Swan will confirm the necessary documents after reviewing the request. For the full list, see [required supporting documents](/partnership/document-center/company-registration/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Missing documents cause most delays. Required documents vary based on the company type, situation, and who is filling out the form. Not all items apply to every case. Share this with users before they open the form so they can prepare. Swan will confirm the necessary documents after reviewing the request. For the full list, see [required supporting documents](/topics/accounts/memberships/admin-change#documents). For country-specific registration documents, see [proof of company registration](/partnership/document-center/company-registration/).
```
